[ent_analysis](https://github.com/lorenghoh/ent_analysis "ent_analysis")
==========

## Entrainment analysis toolkit for SAM ##
The **entrainment analysis toolkit** is a package used to post-process output data generated by SAM ([System for Atmospheric Modelling](http://rossby.msrc.sunysb.edu/~marat/SAM.html)) with entrainment calculation implemented by Dawe and Austin (2011a). This package combines (parallelized and automated) SAM output conversion (```bin3D2nc```), cloudtracker and several different post-process scripts. 

 The raw ```.bin3D``` data from SAM is converted, and sorted to be used by  [*cloudtracker*](https://github.com/freedryk/cloudtracker). Then for each cloud parcel, the package creates a ```netCDF``` file containing all the relevant output data from SAM. Now with the individual cloud data collected by ```cloudtracker```, it is possible to apply reanalysis scripts (or *analysis modules*) to produce a more detailed picture of each cloud parcel -- these *modules* will modify output ```netCDF``` files and add additional statistical variables needed for the entrainment analysis. 

## Current status ##
```ent_analysis``` is now in production.

> (12/10/2013) The development of the analysis modules is more or less done (except maybe a number of bug fixes and the introduction of a better parallelization scheme for ```id_profiles``` and ```surface_profiles```, which is a little more difficult due to the way they are written). 
>
> Unless otherwise requested, I will most likely not include the utility scripts in the package.

> (01/17/2014) No more parallelization will be introduced, as the performance of this package does not significantly improve the speed of the analysis (except the cloud tracking algorithm, but that would entirely be another research). But I will keep adding small improvements to this analysis package. 

### In Progress ###
- [ ] Automatically read dimensions from input files
- [ ] Implement time module to measure execution time

### Next ###
- [ ] Ensure no data contamination by re-run

### Maybe ###
- [ ] Parallelize [*cloudtracker*](https://github.com/freedryk/cloudtracker) module 
- [ ] Implement deeper parallelization for ```id_profiles```

## Getting Started ##
 To run the entrainment analysis toolkit, the following Python modules **must** be installed (as needed for the [*cloudtracker*](https://github.com/freedryk/cloudtracker) module):

- numpy
- networkx
- netcdf4-python *or* pupynere

### Installation ###
Download ent_analysis package to SAM directory, or where the model output will be stored for better performance (*recommended* if the storage is limited, as the entrainment analysis package will also store the processed data). Ensure that the configuration file ```config.cfg``` is properly modified according to the system configuration. 

### Example ###
 To run entrainment analysis toolkit, simple run:```./run_analysis.py```

Or, use the MOAB script ```msub run.pbs```

### Output ###
The post-processed output files are in ```/time_profiles/cdf``` and in ```/id_profiles/cdf```. 